a vegan diet has documented clinical efficacy in rheumatoid arthritis.
Acting on hepatocytes, glucagon promotes (and insulin inhibits) cAMP-dependent mechanisms that down-regulate lipogenic enzymes and cholesterol synthesis, while up-regulating hepatic LDL receptors and production of the IGF-I antagonist IGFBP-1.
Additionally, the relatively low essential amino acid content of some vegan diets may decrease hepatic IGF-I synthesis.
Amino acids modulate the secretion of both insulin and glucagon.
An unnecessarily high intake of essential amino acids--either in the absolute sense or relative to total dietary protein--may prove to be as grave a risk factor for 'Western' degenerative diseases as is excessive fat intake.
By altering the glucagon/insulin balance, it is conceivable that supplemental intakes of key non-essential amino acids could enable omnivores to enjoy some of the health advantages of a vegan diet.
conversely, the high IGF-I activity associated with heavy ingestion of animal products may be largely responsible for the epidemic of Western cancers in wealthy societies.
In fact, vegans tend to have low serum lipids, lean physiques, shorter stature, later puberty, and decreased risk for certain prominent Western cancers.
Increased phytochemical intake is also likely to contribute to the reduction of cancer risk in vegans.
Low-fat vegan diets may be especially protective in regard to cancers linked to insulin resistance--namely, breast and colon cancer--as well as prostate cancer.
Regression of coronary stenoses has been documented during low-fat vegan diets coupled with exercise training.
Risk of many other degenerative disorders may be decreased in vegans, although reduced growth factor activity may be responsible for an increased risk of hemorrhagic stroke.
Soy protein, as well as many other vegan proteins, are higher in non-essential amino acids than most animal-derived food proteins, and as a result should preferentially favor glucagon production.
such regimens also tend to markedly improve diabetic control and lower elevated blood pressure.
the composition of dietary protein therefore has the potential to influence the balance of glucagon and insulin activity.
The insulin-sensitizing properties of many vegan diets--high in fiber, low in saturated fat--should amplify these effects by down-regulating insulin secretion.
The latter effect should impede cancer induction (as is seen in animal studies with soy protein), lessen neutrophil-mediated inflammatory damage, and slow growth and maturation in children.
Thus, diets featuring vegan proteins can be expected to lower elevated serum lipid levels, promote weight loss, and decrease circulating IGF-I activity.
A nested case/control study in a sample of 410 obese school children aged 10 to 16 years (57% males) was performed.
A significantly increased risk for MS was only found when PNI was defined according to Lagos's Table and MS was defined using IDF criteria.
Having a PNI > p90, however, showed a trend towards a reduced risk of MS, which only reached significance using Lagos's Table and Cook's Criteria.
Neonatal malnutrition defined by birth weight (BW) is a risk factor for obesity and cardio-metabolic diseases in adults.
Neonatal ponderal index (NPI) may have better diagnostic value than BW to establish nutritional status.
The dichotomous response variable was the presence of MS defined as International Diabetes Federation (IDF) or Cook's criteria.
The exposure variable was having NPI < percentile (p) 10.
The frequency of MS was 36 and 39% according to the IDF and Cook criteria, respectively.
The proportion of children with neonatal malnutrition exceeded 20%.
To determine the effect of neonatal nutritional status, established by the three NPI curves available in Chile, on the risk of Metabolic Syndrome (MS) in obese school children.
Doctors are going to play a major role as they are being called on to adapt their practices to confront it.
In addition, accurate anthropometric measurements should be performed for use by pediatricians, who should focus efforts on preventing obesity during infancy and childhood.
In particular, nutrition seems to be at the core of obesity in children.
In view of all this, it would be advisable that food science be given higher relevance in medical education.
Nutrition plays such a pivotal role that it may be considered a valuable treatment strategy for multiple pediatric conditions, including celiac disease, Crohn's disease, short bowel syndrome, galactosemia, congenital deficiency of urea cycle enzymes.
Overweight/obesity is a growing epidemic in the Western world and a leading cause of morbidity and mortality, mainly from cardiovascular disease.
Public health programs of primary prevention should be stimulated and recommended, with the aim of promoting diet and lifestyle changes in the general population.
The ascending trend of this phenomenon in pediatric age, with inherent healthcare implications, was already reported in epidemiological studies of the mid '90s.
Obesity and overweight, often present in FM patients, are related to the severity of FM worsening the quality of life in terms of higher pain, fatigue, worsened sleep quality and higher incidence of mood disorders.
Among non-pharmacological treatment, nutrition is a promising tool for FM patients.
Different medical treatments are used to treat fibromyalgia and the recent guidelines suggest that the optimal treatment consists in a multidisciplinary approach with a combination of pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment modalities.
Fibromyalgia syndrome (FM) is a chronic, generalised pain condition usually accompanied by several associated symptoms, such as fatigue, sleep disturbance, headache, irritable bowel syndrome and mood disorders.
In summary, this review reveals the potential benefit of specific dietary interventions as non-pharmacological tools as part of a multidisciplinary treatment for FM patients.
Moreover, it seems reasonable to eliminate some foods from the diet of FM patients, for example excitotoxins.
Non-coeliac gluten sensitivity is increasingly recognised as a frequent condition with similar manifestations which overlap with those of FM.
Nutritional deficiencies have been described in FM patients and the benefits of specific diet and nutritional supplementation are shown.
The aim of this review is to update the present knowledge about fibromyalgia and nutrition by means of a systematic search performed on Medline from January 2000 to December 2014.
The elimination of gluten from the diet of FM patients is recently becoming a potential dietary intervention for clinical improvement.
Weight control is thus an effective tool to improve the symptoms.
The incidence of cancer was higher in patients with colorectal adenoma and metabolic syndrome.
Another 1,500 patients undergoing screening colonoscopy were prospectively analyzed: 134 patients with metabolic syndrome and colorectal adenoma were compared against a group of 108 patients with colorectal adenoma without metabolic syndrome to assess the prevalence of cancer.
Associated liver steatosis is a significant risk factor for colorectal cancer.
Associated obesity and liver steatosis were the only factors with independent statistical value.
Data were analyzed from March to June 2011.
Metabolic syndrome has been identified as a risk factor for colorectal cancer and adenoma.
Metabolic syndrome is a risk factor for adenoma and cancer degeneration when obesity is present.
Ninety patients with metabolic syndrome were prospectively compared against a matched population without the syndrome to assess the prevalence of colorectal adenoma.
The aim of our study was to assess the risk of colorectal cancer and adenoma in an adult Italian population with metabolic syndrome.
The prevalence of colorectal adenoma was twice as high in patients with metabolic syndrome.
The study was performed from January 2008 until December 2010.
Although rapamycin was originally developed as an inhibitor of T cell proliferation for preventing organ transplant rejection, its molecular target, mTOR, has been subsequently identified as a central regulator of metabolic cues that drive lineage specification in the immune system.
Owing to oxidative stress, the activation of mTORC1 has emerged as a central pathway for the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus and other autoimmune diseases.
Paradoxically, mTORC1 has also been identified as a mediator of the Warburg effect that allows cell survival under hypoxia.
Rapamycin and new classes of mTOR inhibitors are being developed to block not only transplant rejection and autoimmunity but also to treat obesity and various forms of cancer.
The mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a ubiquitous serine/threonine kinase, which plays pivotal roles in integrating growth signals on a cellular level.
Through preventing these diseases, personalized mTOR blockade holds promise to extend life span.
To support proliferation and survival under stress, two interacting complexes that harbor mTOR, mTORC1 and mTORC2, promote the transcription of genes involved in carbohydrate metabolism and lipogenesis, enhance protein translation, and inhibit autophagy.
This review will discuss the contribution of AGEs to the cancer phenotype, with a particular emphasis on their biologic links with the socioeconomic and environmental risk factors that drive cancer disparity.
Advanced glycation end-products (AGE) are reactive metabolites produced as a by-product of sugar metabolism.
Critically, AGE accumulation is also directly affected by our lifestyle choices and shows a race-specific, tumor-dependent pattern of accumulation in cancer patients.
Failure to remove these highly reactive metabolites can lead to protein damage, aberrant cell signaling, increased stress responses, and decreased genetic fidelity.
Given the potential benefits of lifestyle changes and the potential biologic role of AGEs in promoting cancer, opportunities exist for collaborations affecting basic, translational, epidemiologic, and cancer prevention initiatives.
Low income, poor diet, obesity, and a lack of exercise are interrelated lifestyle factors that can profoundly alter our biologic make up to increase cancer risk, growth, and development.
We recently reported a potential mechanistic link between carbohydrate-derived metabolites and cancer, which may provide a biologic consequence of lifestyle that can directly affect tumor biology.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that a high BMI at time of prostate cancer diagnosis was associated with increased overall mortality.
Additionally, men with a low BMI (<22.5 kg/m2 ), had a statistically significant increased risk of prostate cancer specific mortality (HR:1.33, 95% CI: 1.02-1.74) and overall mortality (HR:1.36, 95% CI: 1.11-1.67) compared to the reference.
After 11 years of follow up via linkage to the population-based cause of death registry, we identified 1,161 (37%) deaths off which 690 (59%) were due to prostate cancer.
BACKGROUND: Body Mass index (BMI) has been shown to affect risk and mortality of several cancers.
However, this effect disappeared when men who died within the first two years of follow-up were excluded from the analyses while the increased risk of prostate cancer specific mortality and overall mortality remained statistically significant for men with a BMI >= 27.5 kg/m2 (HR:1.44, 95% CI: 1.09-1.90 and HR: 1.33, 95% CI: 1.09-1.63, respectively).
METHODS: BMI was analyzed both as a continuous variable and categorized into four groups based on the observed distribution in the cohort (BMI < 22.5, 22.5 < 25, 25 < 27.5 and >=27.5 kg/m2).
OBJECTIVE: To study the associations between BMI at time of prostate cancer diagnosis and prostate cancer specific and overall mortality.
Previous studies of pre-diagnostic BMI have found an increased risk of prostate cancer mortality in obese patients.
Prostate cancer and obesity are major public health concerns for middle-aged and older men.
RESULTS: High BMI (BMI >= 27.5 kg/m2) was associated with a statistically significant increased risk of prostate cancer specific mortality (HR:1.44, 95% CI: 1.09-1.90) and overall mortality (HR:1.33, 95% CI: 1.09-1.63) compared to the reference group (BMI 22.5 < 25 kg/m2).
The association between BMI and mortality was assessed using stratified Cox proportional hazards models and by fitting regression splines for dose response analysis in 3,161 men diagnosed with prostate cancer.
all P<.001). Obesity (body mass index >=30 kg/m(2) ) was not found to be associated with OS, but appeared to modify the relationships observed with IL-8 and LDH, which were associated with a significant 4-fold and 5-fold risk of death, respectively, in obese patients compared with a 2-fold risk of death in nonobese patients (P for interaction of .06 and .04, respectively).
BACKGROUND: Obesity is strongly linked with chronic systemic inflammation, and each has been linked with disease progression and survival in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC).
CONCLUSIONS: Although obesity itself was not found to be independently associated with survival in patients with mCRC, the adverse prognostic significance of LDH and IL-8 was found to be enhanced in obese patients.
Cut points for cytokines were determined by restricted cubic spline regression.
METHODS: In 242 chemotherapy-naive patients with mCRC, the authors measured a multiplex cytokine panel and abstracted clinicopathological features, height, and weight from medical records.
Overall survival (OS) was calculated from the date of mCRC diagnosis until the date of death from any cause and evaluated by Kaplan-Meier analysis and multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression models.
RESULTS: In multivariable models, elevated interleukin (IL)-8, IL-2 receptor alpha, and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) emerged as significant predictors of poor OS (hazard ratio [HR] and 95% confidence interval [95% CI] for above vs below the (referent) knot point: 2.5 [95% CI, 1.7-3.7], 1.9 [95% CI, 1.3-2.7], and 2.2 [95% CI, 1.6-3.1], respectively.
Similar results emerged from joint effects analysis, in which obese patients with high IL-8 (or LDH) experienced the highest risk of death.
The authors investigated the joint prognostic effects of obesity and circulating cytokines in patients with metastatic CRC (mCRC), an understudied patient group.
Among premenopausal women, a number of epidemiological studies in Western populations suggested a weak inverse association between BMI and breast cancer risk.
After menopause, adipose tissue is a major source of estrogen.
Conversely, there exists substantial evidence for a statistically significant positive association between body weight and breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women.
Further studies are needed to investigate the association between BMI and breast cancer risk, considering the role of body fat in the development of mammary glands.
Numerous epidemiological studies, although not all, in Western countries have reported a possible differential impact of BMI on breast cancer risk in women of various lifestages.
Special attention should be paid to women in their twenties and/or during their lactation periods when the development of normal mammary glands is significant.
The cumulative exposure to estrogen throughout a woman's life is one of the significant risk factors for breast cancer.
Therefore, an increase in body fat after menopause is one of the possible explanations for the positive association of body weight with the development of breast cancer.
To evaluate the impact of body weight on the risk of breast cancer, we need to consider the role of adipose tissue in the development and differentiation of normal mammary glands.
Endometrial biopsy results: proliferative (13/30; 43%), insufficient (8/30; 27%), secretory (6/30; 20%) and hyperplasia (3/30; 10%-1 complex atypical, 2 simple). QOL data showed significant improvement in physical component scores (PCS means 33.9 vs. 47.2 before/after surgery; p<0.001).
Twenty women underwent metabolic analysis which demonstrated significantly improved glucose homeostasis, improved insulin responsiveness, and free fatty acid levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Bariatric surgery is accompanied by an improved physical quality of life as well as beneficial changes in glucose homeostasis, insulin responsiveness, and inflammation to a greater extent than the hormonal milieu.
Demographic and clinicopathologic data, serum, and endometrium (if no prior hysterectomy) were collected preoperatively and serum collected postoperatively.
METHODS: Women undergoing bariatric surgery were enrolled.
Most steroid hormones were not significantly impacted with the exception of decreased DHEAS and 4-androsten metabolites.
OBJECTIVES: The study objectives were to determine baseline endometrial histology in morbidly obese women undergoing bariatric surgery and to assess the surgical intervention's impact on serum metabolic parameters, quality of life (QOL), and weight.
RESULTS: Mean age of the 71 women enrolled was 44.2 years, mean body mass index (BMI) was 50.9 kg/m(2), and mean weight loss was 45.7 kg.
Serum global biochemical data were assessed pre/postoperatively.
Significant perturbations in tryptophan, phenylalanine and heme metabolism suggested decreased inflammation and alterations in the intestinal microbiome.
The potential cancer protective effects of bariatric surgery may be due to other mechanisms other than simply hormonal changes.
Welch's two sample t-tests and paired t-tests were used to identify significant differences.
BMI was defined according to the National Institutes of Health's categorizations.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of women undergoing SCS for recurrent ovarian cancer, BMI significantly and independently correlated with overall survival.
In a multivariate analysis, BMI was an independent predictor of survival (p=0.02).
median survival was undetermined (greater than 50 months), 46 months, 38 months, and 34 months, respectively (p=0.04).
METHODS: We performed a review of patients undergoing SCS for recurrent epithelial ovarian or peritoneal cancer between 1997 and 2012.
OBJECTIVES: Obesity may negatively influence tumor biology in women with epithelial ovarian cancers.
Overall, 90 patients underwent optimal resection and BMI did not correlate with ability to perform optimal SCS (p=0.25).
RESULTS: We identified 104 patients; 2 were underweight, 46 were of ideal body weight, 32 were overweight, and 24 were obese.
This observation suggests an effect of excess weight on tumor biology and/or response to treatment that is prevalent throughout the disease course.
To date, only body mass indices (BMI) determined at the time of diagnosis have correlated with clinical outcome.
We hypothesized that obesity negatively affects survival throughout the disease course, and sought to determine the prognostic role of BMI at the time of secondary cytoreductive surgery (SCS) for recurrent ovarian cancer.
We retrospectively reviewed data which were analyzed using Fisher's exact test, Kaplan-Meier survival, and Cox regression analysis.
When examining BMI strata (underweight, ideal, overweight, and obese), we observed a statistical trend between increasing BMI and poor outcome.
CS-MR over-estimated IHF in the upper range.
In 35 patients undergoing resection for colorectal cancer metastases, we measured: CT-derived subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue volumes, Homeostasis Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR), fasting serum adiponectin, leptin and fetuin-A.
BACKGROUND: High intra-hepatic fat (IHF) content is associated with insulin resistance, visceral adiposity, and increased morbidity and mortality following liver resection.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show IHF is associated with measures of insulin resistance, but not measures of visceral adiposity.
However, in clinical practice, IHF is assessed indirectly by pre-operative imaging [for example, chemical-shift magnetic resonance (CS-MR)].
Larger studies are indicated to test whether a correction of imaging-derived IHF estimates is valid.
METHODS: A reproducible method for quantification of D-IHF using 7 histology slides (inter- and intra-rater concordance: 0.97 and 0.98) was developed.
MR-derived IHF correlated with D-IHF (rho: 0.626; p = 0.0001), but levels of agreement deviated in upper range values (CS-MR over-estimated IHF: regression versus zero, p = 0.009).
RESULTS: The multivariate linear regression models showed that D-IHF was best predicted by HOMA-IR (Beta coefficient(per doubling): 2.410, 95% CI: 1.093, 5.313) and adiponectin (β(per doubling): 0.197, 95% CI: 0.058, 0.667), but not by anthropometrics.
this could be adjusted for by a correction factor (CF: 0.7816).
We estimated relative IHF using CS-MR and developed prediction models for IHF using a factor-clustered approach.
We used the opportunity in patients undergoing liver resection to quantify IHF by digital histology (D-IHF) and relate this to CT-derived anthropometrics, insulin-related serum biomarkers, and IHF estimated by CS-MR.
In this review we discuss the current epidemiology, basic science, and clinical data that link obesity, diabetes, and cancer and how treating obesity and type 2 diabetes could also reduce cancer risk and improve outcomes.
Intentional weight loss may protect against cancer development, and therapies for diabetes may prove to be effective adjuvant agents in reducing cancer progression.
Multiple factors potentially contribute to the progression of cancer in obesity and type 2 diabetes, including hyperinsulinemia and insulin-like growth factor I, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, adipokines and cytokines, and the gut microbiome.
Obesity and type 2 diabetes are becoming increasingly prevalent worldwide, and both are associated with an increased incidence and mortality from many cancers.
The metabolic abnormalities associated with type 2 diabetes develop many years before the onset of diabetes and, therefore, may be contributing to cancer risk before individuals are aware that they are at risk.
These metabolic changes may contribute directly or indirectly to cancer progression.
Benefits of dietary moderation when on a Mediterranean diet type (MD) have been known for well over half a century.
Benefits of MD in preventing and reducing cardiovascular disorders (CVD), known before, have been strongly confirmed.
In the past, there has been a vigorous renewal of interest in preventive potential of MD.
This review is unique, by focusing on the very recent confirmatory data on the MD, all published within the first half of 2014.
While there is little doubt regarding potential benefit of MD for obesity, diabetes type II, metabolic syndrome and fatty liver, critical evaluation has to be aimed at reported benefits of MD in such widely metabolic diverse disorders as cancer, pulmonary disease and cognition defects, including Alzheimer disease (Ref. 20).
Bivariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to investigate the relationships between obesity, as measured by body mass index (BMI) at the time of hysterectomy and tumor features including LVI.
In multivariate analyses, higher BMI was independently associated with younger age at diagnosis (odd ratio (OR)=0.97, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.96-9.97) and the presence of lower tumor FIGO grade (OR=0.98, 95% CI=0.97-0.99).
In other disease sites, it has been reported that obesity and LVI are strongly associated.
Increased body mass index was not associated with LVI.
46.8% of the patients were morbidly obese.
625 patients (46.7%) were <60 years at diagnosis with a median BMI of 36.31 (range=19.7-69.8) kg/m(2) while the median BMI for women 61 years or older was 32.2 (15.7-71.3) kg/m(2) (p=0.002).
AIM: Obesity is classically linked to type I endometrial cancer (EC).
All patients underwent hysterectomy, and salpingoophrectomy with or without lymph node dissection.
CONCLUSION: Increased BMI was significantly associated with lower tumor grade and younger patient age at diagnosis.
In univariate analyses, high BMI was not significantly associated with LVI.
Lymphovascular invasion (LVI) is a well-known adverse prognostic factor in EC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: For this Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved study, we reviewed our prospectively-maintained uterine cancer database of 1,950 patients with EC International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stages I-IV who underwent hysterectomy from 1/1988 through 12/2011.
RESULTS: A total of 1,341 patients with uterine endometrioid carcinoma were identified.
The higher prevalence of obesity in young women with EC is alarming.
The median BMI for study patients was 34.3 (range=15.7-71.3) kg/m(2).
The objective of the present study was to investigate the association between obesity and LVI in women with EC.
In a model that controlled for multiple breast cancer risk factors including body mass index (BMI), estradiol, and insulin, CRP level was positively associated with breast cancer risk among HT nonusers (hazard ratio for high vs low CRP levels = 1.67, 95% confidence interval = 1.04 to 2.68, P trend = .029).
RESULTS: The association between plasma CRP levels and breast cancer risk was dependent on hormone therapy (HT) use at baseline (P interaction = .003).
All statistical tests were two-sided.
BACKGROUND: Adipokines and inflammation may provide a mechanistic link between obesity and postmenopausal breast cancer, yet epidemiologic data on their associations with breast cancer risk are limited.
CONCLUSION: These data indicate that CRP is a risk factor for postmenopausal breast cancer among HT nonusers.
Data were analyzed by multivariable Cox modeling that included established breast cancer risk factors and previously measured estradiol and insulin levels.
Following inclusion of CRP, insulin, and estradiol in a multivariable model, the association of BMI with breast cancer was attenuated by 115%.
Inflammatory mediators, together with insulin and estrogen, may play a role in the obesity-breast cancer relation.
METHODS: In a case-cohort analysis nested within the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study, a prospective cohort of postmenopausal women, baseline plasma samples from 875 incident breast cancer case patients and 839 subcohort participants were tested for levels of seven adipokines, namely leptin, adiponectin, resistin, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, hepatocyte growth factor, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, and for C-reactive protein (CRP), an inflammatory marker.
None of the other adipokines were statistically significantly associated with breast cancer risk.
however, the relationship between a biomarker of n-3 status - the Omega-3 Index - and liver fat is yet to be elucidated.
The addition of the novel erythrocyte fatty acid variable (Omega-3 Index) to the model only accounted for a further 3 % of the variance (P=0·049).
A total of eighty overweight adults (fifty-six men) completed the anthropometric and biochemical measurements, including the Omega-3 Index, and underwent proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy assessment of liver fat.
Bivariate correlations and multiple regression analyses were performed with reference to prediction of liver fat percentage.
In conclusion, the Omega-3 Index was associated with liver fat concentration but did not improve the overall capacity of demographic, anthropometric and blood markers to predict NAFLD.
Low n-3 PUFA intake has been associated with the presence of NAFLD.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an independent predictor of CVD in otherwise healthy individuals.
Regression analysis found that simple anthropometric and demographic variables (waist, age) accounted for 31 % of the variance in liver fat and the addition of traditional cardiometabolic blood markers (TAG, HDL, hsCRP and ALT) increased the predictive power to 43 %.
The mean Omega-3 Index was high in both NAFLD (intrahepatic lipid concentration>=5·5 %) and non-NAFLD groups.
The Omega-3 Index, BMI, waist circumference, glucose, insulin, TAG, high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were positively correlated, and HDL and erythrocyte n-6:n-3 ratio negatively correlated with liver fat concentration.
CONCLUSION: Although obesity had no effect on recurrence pattern of early breast cancer patients, obese early breast cancer patients had shorter OS compared to their normal-weight counterparts.
During follow-up, 469 (17.1%) patients developed recurrence and/or metastasis.
In obese patients, disease free survival (DFS) was shorter compared to normal weighted patients, but the difference was not significant.
In the whole patient group no relation between metastatic sites and BMI groups was noticed.
METHODS: This retrospective cross-sectional study analyzed the data of 2731 early stage breast cancer patients.
Obese and overweighted patients had significantly shorter overall survival (OS) compared to the normal-weight group (p=0.003).
Of 2455 total patients, 853 (34.6%) were classified as having normal weight, 898 (36.2%) were overweighted and 704 (29.2%) were obese.
Patients were classified into three BMI categories: normal body weight, overweight, and obese.
Patients who had metastatic disease at the time of diagnosis and with unknown BMI values were excluded from study (N=276).
PURPOSE: Obesity is a well known risk factor for breast cancer recurrence and poor prognosis.
RESULTS: The median patient age was 48 years (range 18-92).
The association between first relapse site of early breast cancer patients and BMI categories were evaluated.
The first primary metastatic sites were also not associated with BMI groups in pre and postmenopausal subpopulations.
The median follow up time was 40 months (range 1-284).
The recurrent/metastatic sites of patients were grouped in 8 categories: local, contralateral, lymph node, bone, lung, liver, brain and others.
There was no significant difference between site-specific DFS in relation to BMI categorization.
We studied the effect of body mass index (BMI) on recurrence pattern in early breast cancer patients.
third, as modulators of energy extraction from, and metabolic utilization of ingested food.
An alteration of the normal microbiota increases predisposition of the host to diseases through these four mechanisms.
and lastly, as modulators of the immune system.
Recent studies have revealed that normal microbiota interacts with the host through four mechanisms:.
second, as modulators of the permeability of host mucosa.
the normal microbiome acts as a barrier against pathogens.
Some risk factors are age, gender and race, genetic susceptibility, dietary factors, fever, chronic pancreatitis, diabetes and physical inactivity.
Even though in recent years progress has been made in defining the morphological and key genetic changes, it is still unclear which factors trigger its occurrence.
Its incidence is approximately equal to the mortality rate.
Pancreatic cancer is an aggressive tumor with a very poor prognosis, lack of early diagnostic symptoms and highly resistant to therapy.
Research based on adipokines and their role in obesity and the occurrence of pancreatic cancer are the potential for a possible future therapeutic interventions.
Studies have shown that an increase in BMI consequently leads to an increased risk of malignancies, including pancreatic cancer.